# Dice-Rolls
Find the sum of two dice rolls with the highest probability

There are two dice given with the same or different amount of sides. Each die has numbered sides starting at 1 and each side has equal roll probability. You roll the dice and add the number of the two faces showing. The task is to find the sum of the two dice rolls which is the most likely one to roll. Under the constraint the dice have given sides by 4≤N,M≤20, the number of possibilities is N⋅M. If we want to look through every sum and its probability it will take a lot of time. For example, if we have two dice with 12 sides each, there will be 144 possibilities and 23 different sums from (2, ...., 24) with similar and dissimilar probabilities.

Solution:
First think about a matrix with N⋅M entries, every entry representing a sum of two dice roll. If N=M , we have a symmetric matrix with one main diagonal. We will see in each diagonal the entries always have the same sums. Also we can interpret the number of entries on a diagonal as a representation of their probability. As the main diagonal has the most entries, N+1 , as an entry of the main diagonal, represents the sum with the highest probability. For M<N we can see, the diagonals after the main diagonal for M=N have the same amount of entries as the main diagonal in the symmetric matrix, like a parallel shift of the main diagonal. So these diagonals also provide us with most likely probabilties. Because of this case we get more than one answer for the sum with the highest probability. The sums with the most likely probabilities are from (M+1) till (N+1) included. For N<M , it follows the same logic.
